In Britain, the reaction to the Panama Papers case was a bit strange.
Politicians either publicly revealed their tax returns
and in the attempts to prove that they have no foreign accounts,
or strongly protest against having to prove,
that they do not have any foreign accounts.
One of them said that to ask politicians to publicly reveal tax returns,
is "similar to the Stasi or KGB practices".
Welcome to Norway. Behind me is the Oslo Finance Office.
And if you want to know how many politicians take the money, just ask here.
It's not just politics.
You can ask anyone. Tax returns have been public in Norway, Sweden and Finland for several years.
These countries differ in how much information they provide
and if you have a good reason to ask.
But your revenue is substantially public.
Now we could do what every television station would do.
We could make a cut for interviews with Nora on the street,
where we would ask them.
Or we can go about it scientifically
and look at an article from Microsoft Research written by Ricardo Perez-Truglia.
It combines two things. First, the survey Norsk Monitor,
which is carried out every two years, investigates a representative sample of the Norwegians
and includes, among other things, questions about happiness and contentment with life.
And secondly: Finding someone else's tax details has changed from:
"You have to go and go through a lot of documents,
which is only allowed three weeks a year, "
to: "Newspapers have made everything online and even have a search box."
The article concludes that the opportunity to look at wages,
that's a chance to see if you're better than the Jones family
or Johansen,
does not make the people happier overall.
Instead, it increases the abyss of happiness.
When you know you pay more than your neighbors,
you are more likely to be satisfied with your life.
But when you know you're worse than they are? It's going to make it worse.
Still in Norway you can look at tax returns online,
but now you must sign up for yourself as a taxpayer
and everyone can see who searched for them.
This is another social game than before.
But there is another good argument for the possibility of tracking wages.
The world would be fairer.
We have no verified information yet, at least I have not found them,
and it would also be very hard to measure.
But we have good unofficial information.
Specifically, from a Google engineer who created a spreadsheet,
where his colleagues could voluntarily share their salary.
The story about it and the way it responded to it is definitely worth reading.
And we also have evidence that they say,
(although they may not like the politicians)
that public disclosure of tax returns reduces the likelihood of tax evasion attempts.
So it means I'll publish my tax return
and show the world how much I've earned last year?
No. Because I'm Brit and
The British do not talk about money, because it's unpleasant and
you can learn something that you did not want to know.
Or hurt somebody too.
So my response to salary reporting is the same as that of many other people:
You discover the first.
Translation: minihry36